The first one is the leader, the leader in losses and this is a pricing strategy that
many companies do, especially retailers or e-commerce.
What is done is when you have a wide range of products, you use one or several products
as a hook and you put a price that in many cases does not allow you to make money and
in some cases you can be even in losses, but it has a benefit and that is that you attract
many customers, you attract them to your website, you attract them to your store, etc.
This is called the leader.
What you are going to do is you are going to attract customers with those products with which you earn
very little money but you are going to make those customers profitable with another series
of products that you have or because the customer lifetime value, the permanence of your customers
is very high.
I'm going to give you an example.
Walmart, Walmart, the basic products are, you could make the purchase at Walmart and
they really do not earn anything with you.
What happens is that this is allowing them to attract a lot of traffic to supermarkets
and in the end, as it has such a wide offer, you end up buying more things.
That is a leader loss strategy.
The same strategy was used by Amazon when it launched its tablet, which is the Kindle
Fire, the first Kindle Fire HD.
It came out with a much lower market price than its competitors, it squeezed the margins
a lot, Amazon did not care at that time, what it wanted was to attract more customers
that it was going to make profitable in other ways.
Let's see another example of the leaders, which are the blades, for example, the Gillette blades.
When Gillette sells the mango, the margin is much smaller.
I don't think it loses money, but it has squeezed the margins a lot because what they want is not
to make money with the mango, what they want is to make money with the blades that they sell later.
This price fixing tactic, in addition to being a leader loss, to use that concept,
what we can move on to the next one, which in English is called captive pricing, which is to use
the captivity of customers.
And the same thing Gillette does with the blades, for example, does it in Espresso.
With the coffee makers, it earns little money, it has greatly reduced its margins, but what it does
is make money with the capsules.
Or they do the same, the printers have always done it, they sell the hardware,
they sell it with very low margins because they know they are going to make money by putting a higher price,
not a higher price, but by applying much higher margins to the cartridges.
In this case, the concept of loss leader is given, because we apply very low margins to a product
to make it profitable with another series of products, but we go further because they are customers
who are almost captive, because if they don't buy the blades, if they don't buy the ink cartridges
or if they don't buy the coffee maker capsules, the purchase they have made of the coffee maker, etc.,
is not worth anything, therefore the customer is captive.
Let's see now a very interesting concept, which is the bundle.
Bundles consist of grouping a series of products of your offer and putting a common price.
And this is very common, for example, in the menus in the hamburger shops,
that you have the hamburger, the potatoes and the drinks, and the bundles that they make in the cinema are very well understood,
that you go and buy the popcorn and the Coca-Cola.
And it has many advantages, it is a very effective pricing strategy, for several reasons,
you will understand it well, from the point of view of the seller, let's think about the cinema,
what it allows is to increase the average ticket a lot.
You go to the cinema and you spend almost always, per person, another 10 euros more for this bundle.
So you can increase the average ticket, but also from the perspective of the customer,
it is very comfortable, because it is usually given in complementary products.
And in addition to the comfort of buying complementary products, because you want both,
there is another quite psychological factor, and it is that when you buy a bundle you are perceiving that you save.
And the curious thing is that in some cases the savings is minimal, that is, the cinema could put,
regarding the prices separately of popcorn and Coca-Cola, could make a reduction of only 5%,
and customers would go directly to the bundle because they would perceive that they are saving,
when the savings is totally residual.
Therefore, as you can see, it is a technique that must be understood well, because it has many benefits for the seller.
In some cases, bundles are used to give way to products that individually have a lower demand.
And it occurs to me, for example, when in a tailor's shop they sell you a tailored suit with a shirt,
for example, two shirts and a tie, two ties.
Well, those ties are likely to be costing the tailor to sell them, you are touching too much.
And the bundle allows you to give way to that type of product.
Let's now see a concept that we all understand, which are promotions and discounts.
We are talking about a tactic, a tactic that leads you to increase demand on a timely basis.
We are not talking about a low-cost strategy.
And what happens sometimes with promotions and discounts is that if you abuse,
you are transmitting a message to the market, you may be destroying your positioning,
or you may be becoming directly a low-cost competitor.
And if this is not your strategy, if it is not what you have decided, you may be destroying your business.
Because you get customers used to buying always with discounts,
and it turns out that in the end they end up perceiving you as...
It is impossible for customers to buy the original price again.
There are different ways to do it, to make promotions.
There are some that are more elegant, so to speak, in some way than others.
And there are some that are more destructive to your brand.
Coupons, for example, you can play with coupons if you do not do it too aggressively,
because the coupon only gives a discount to someone you have chosen.
Someone who, for example, I don't know, you can offer a coupon in exchange for their data on the website,
or a coupon for loyalty, etc.
It is true that the coupon strategy, if you do it too aggressively,
you may be causing a huge damage.
And, for example, there are platforms of coupons in which to position yourself there,
like Groupon, for example, is quite dangerous.
At least it is dangerous.
There are the discounts that we all know, in which in this case what we do is a discount for everyone.
Usually the discounts are given in retail, in the selling points,
whether physical or e-commerce.
Another way to make promotions is that in English,
they call it BOGOF, which is Buy One, Get One Free.
Well, in the end I have put buy two and get one free.
What you do is give away the second or third unit.
And the best of all, perhaps, are the cards or the decentralization programs,
because deep down they are promotions, they are discounted,
but you are only rewarding your most loyal customers.
Therefore, you are giving them a positive message, not a negative one.